if you own a mobile phone you must see
this for years the experts have been
arguing over them some say they're
perfectly safe others claim they fry
your brains well an international team
of doctors including two of Australia's
finest surgeons have just released their
latest comprehensive research and as the
father of young children it really made
me sit up and take notice
they say prolonged use of mobile phones
could double the risk of malignant brain
tumors the deadliest of all cancers the
kind that leaves no survivors with an
entire generation now growing up hooked
on their mobiles that could be
absolutely devastating
the Nimoy Valley in northern New South
Wales is a beautiful place say there yet
the Ranger Hills again the favorite view
of John and Margaret Bryant Austin City
I'm okay with it for a while that's
beautiful with a piece of heaven on
earth listener hmm but John is terrified
he won't be looking down upon it for
much longer
he has terminal brain cancer gotta hang
on be so positive all throughout so you
just gotta keep on going here well is
life this hope
ironically after a life of physical toil
on the land this rough-and-tumble farmer
blames modern technology for killing it
his mobile phone make this no doubt
about mine
I know it what killed me so you're
saying what killed you as if you're
already dead
yeah well I am dead aren't I on a dead
man walking really and on when you think
about it this is when you're near in a
bit of strife when you first went out
yeah last November John was working in
his shearing shed when he lost control
of the left side of his body doctors
found a malignant tumor just behind his
right ear I told dr. his he's a very
good doctor I said I don't want any crap
tell me the truth you know he said I'll
tell you the truth this is a trick they
say with this disease there are no
survivors everyone does so that was a
good introduction of cameras Hospital
this is a large and loving family the
brides have carved a full life here
through farming and the family trucking
business
John's mobile phone has been an
essential tool of the trade
for the past 25 years and he's in no
doubt those countless hours would have
glued to easier gave him the brains you
I can't begin to imagine what you're
going through people come up to me just
you know they're trying to be nice and I
so I can imagine how you feel I think
now you can't imagine how I feel you
know and I reckon it's cause definitely
by those bloody mobile phones dr. T Oh
John insists his brain tumor has been
caused by his mobile phone do you agree
with his diagnosis insist is a strong
word and there are always two sides to
every story but if the question is do I
believe that mobile phones can cause
brain cancer the answer is yes I do
exactly the fact that you've
deteriorated so much in the last three
days meant such a probably won't survive
more than about three more weeks it's
that bad yeah I know it's bad dr.
Charlie teo is johns neurosurgeon his
last hope to beat the tumor he's also
the co-author of a frightening new study
that's predicting a dramatic increase in
brain tumors caused by the long-term use
of mobile phones that's the huge fear I
mean what if what if we are right then
if we're right we're going to see a huge
increase in brain tumors and brain
cancer in the next decade or so I was
going to be frightening and guess what
them
we're already frightened by what we see
most of us are pretty wary of these
things and with good reason
microwave ovens use electromagnetic
radiation to cook your food now it's
exactly the same energy on exactly the
same wavelength as the stuff that's
being pumped out of your mobile phone
admittedly microwaves are a lot more
powerful but you wouldn't consider for a
moment holding your ear up to one of
these for hours at a time
day after day yet that's precisely what
most of us are doing with our mobiles
long term use of mobile phones is
associated with a doubling of the risk
of being diagnosed with certain brain
tumors you're saying that if you use a
mobile phone over an extended period
right over 10 years you double your risk
of developing a brain tumor that's what
the data that we have analyzed that's
what it shows Finney Clara hello
Canberra neurosurgeon dr. Vinny Khurana
worked with Charlie teo and three other
leading scientists to produce this
latest report and he believes mobile
phones could be the biggest public
health issue since tobacco were you
surprised at the size of the result I
actually think it may be a conservative
estimate
you've been doubling the risk is
conservative yes I would be very happy
to be wrong about this because the
public health implications of being
right about this are enormous at the
moment there are just over 4 billion
users of mobile phones there are people
as young as 3 using them and that's
where the biggest threat lies with our
kids today being presented with your
first mobile is an essential passport to
lives
now kids inhabit a wireless world and
it's nothing for them to spend hours
each day chatting on the phone on the
average they use it about four hours a
day I normally have long conversations
at night with people I don't know I use
my phone a lot I've got to probably say
about at least four hours as well yeah
this is the way we've been brought up to
communicate with our mobile phones and
it's just the easiest because they're
portable we can take them anywhere so
it's just the easiest way to communicate
with our friends I have an incredibly
worried concerned depressed at the
number of kids and I'm seeing that
coming in with brain tumors malignant
brain tumors just in the last three or
four weeks I've seen probably half a
dozen kids with tumors that really
should have been benign and they've all
been nasty malignant brain tumors